# Copy Reading In Markdown

Copy a selection in reading view while keeping the markdown formatting

## 🛠️ Usage

- Select the text you want to copy
- Open the command palette
- Select `Copy selected text`

> **Note**  
> The goal is to replace the native copy function of Obsidian. You can set the command on <kbd>CTRL</kbd> + <kbd>C</kbd> (<kbd>⌘</kbd>+<kbd>C</kbd> on MacOS)
> Some selection doesn't work as in the native copy in Obsidian, but I didn't find a way to process the native copy function in the plugin.

> **Warning**  
> It is possible that the command doesn't work on mobile, as the use of command palette unselects the text.

## ⚙️ Settings

You can adjust the way the content is copied in the settings.

1. Choose which mode/view you want to set up the markup edition 
    For example, you can apply only on reading mode, so your copy-paste in Obsidian edit are the same.
2. Choose to copy in HTMl instead of Markdown (a majority of the following settings will be disabled)
3. Adjust the links markup (keep, delete all or delete for internal links)
4. Adjust the footnotes markup (keep all, keep the contents as `[^1]` or delete all)
5. For unconventional markup :
   - Delete the markup of highlight (`==`)
   - Choose how the callout type must be formatted. It can be removed, keep as in obsidian or convert in bold ("à la" github callout)
6. You can also copy with hard break lines (the plugin will add two spaces at the end of each line)

## 📝 Limitations

- For a strange reason, the first line of a blockquote (only that is selected) is not copied as a blockquote. If you select the line before, they are... Same if the line is "empty" (or use invisible characters like `$~~$`).
- Footnotes are... Strange. They are copied as links, not the content of the footnote (check settings if you want to adjust this)
- Not support Mathjax copying (as you can't select them in reading view).
- In reading view, already "HTML writing" are not copied as HTML (like `<b>…</b>`). They are copied as markdown, or only the text is copied (if not basic html). You can prevent this using the `data-type="html"` attribute on the element. For example, `b data-type="html"` will be copied as `<b>…</b>`.


## 📥 Installation

- [ ] From Obsidian's community plugins
- [x] Using BRAT with `https://github.com/Lisandra-dev/copy-reading-in-markdown`
- [x] From the release page:
- Download the latest release
- Unzip `copy-reading-in-markdown.zip` in `.obsidian/plugins/` path
- In Obsidian settings, reload the plugin
- Enable the plugin

## 🤖 Developing

To make changes to this plugin, first ensure you have the dependencies installed.

```
npm install
```

To start building the plugin with what mode enabled run the following command:

```
npm run dev
```

> **Note**  
> If you haven't already installed the hot-reload-plugin you'll be prompted to. You need to enable that plugin in your obsidian vault before hot-reloading will start. You might need to refresh your plugin list for it to show up.
> To start a release build run the following command:

```
npm run build
```


> **Note**  
> You can use the `.env` file with adding the key `VAULT_DEV` to specify the path to your Obsidian (development) vault. This will allow you to test your plugin without specify each times the path to the vault.


### 📤 Export

You can use the `npm run export` command to export your plugin to your Obsidian Main Vault. To do that, you need the `.env.json` file with the following content:

```dotenv
VAULT=path/to/main/vault
VAULT_DEV=path/to/dev/vault
```

### 🎼 Languages

- [x] English
- [x] French

To add a translation:
- Fork the repository
- Add the translation in the `src/i18n/locales` folder with the name of the language (ex: `fr.json`)
- Copy the content of the [`en.json`](./src/i18n/locales/en.json) file in the new file
- Translate the content
- Create a pull request

---

<sub>This plugin was generated by <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/@lisandra-dev/create-obsidian-plugin">create-obsidian-plugin</a></sub>
